that's awesome so yeah why don't we just
start with like introductions and you
guys tell me a little bit about you know
what tell me a little bit about who you
are and and yeah like what's going on
nowadays one two three let's go on the
button right here I'm not sure who's on
the bottom right here first you go first
you like you're a little bit closer to
the mic man we're getting some some
breathing yeah so um I'm space and you
guys might have seen me on the discord
in the fitness and diet channel thanks
so much that's okay I'm since game
therapy I've changed a lot and I'm now
in school I'm doing an apprenticeship as
well as my degree at the same time I
feel like this is finally the time that
I'm gonna get my degree and I feel like
I'm changing the law um in terms of my
experience in mental health I come from
a African Christian background in the UK
and a lot of it is a Ziva demons or
monkeys or Ziva I don't know like we
didn't they don't believe in it it's
like a thing that doesn't exist you know
um is evil just pray about it or just
man up yes I miss it might be something
of a of a Mel finger it might be
something of something in the blackened
Christian community
ever since watching your stream and gain
the confidence and to say that okay I'm
gonna get therapy and gain it through my
company which is which I'm so happy
about I've seen so much of a change so
it's through something called CBT
cognitive behavioral therapy if anyone's
heard of it and it's like changing
thoughts and that automatic negative
force and I feel like that's really
helped as well as psychiatry as well
shouts okay what was your name again
Raymond Raymond Ray okay cool man thank
you very much for sharing business I can
go next thanks man
so my name is Aki Aki n sometimes people
struggle with that I could go by my
gamertag wrathy - I don't really care
but yeah so I guess just a little bit
about myself I guess what I'm doing
right now I mean I'm not doing not
technically working and you know kovin
and all that but I've been trying to use
the time off of work to work on like
work on any everything I care about
primarily programming cool I used to
work in the software industry and then I
got fired for being a lazy piece of [ __ ]
and so I'm trying to not be lazy so I
figure if I can like work on a project
by myself and like accomplish something
I would be pretty confident that I could
like work any job and at least get my
work done and that kind of thing sure
that's where I'm at right now hmm okay
thanks I'll end up sharing knocking yeah
oh also I just mentioned I also come
from an African Christian background too
so I feel you man Eli you want to go yes
sir
I also come from happy Christian and
it's a very common thing to have the
same mental health thing I'm very lucky
that my mom's nurse so mental health has
always been a thing that was paid
attention to my family and she attempted
to get me diagnosed when I was very
young my older brother also doubled
depression and bipolar disorder and
using that nature so I was diagnosed
with depression anxiety I think it was
about 7 to 12 years old probably more I
think about 7 years old
and I've dealt with a lot of so in
Nigeria I'm Nigerian and Nigerian
culture
abuse is a very common thing is okay to
beat your children and without much care
for the pain in which they will go
through and the long-term effects with
that even now I'm only like actually
recognizing the long-term effects with
that much like relating to the
experience feeling like a lazy piece of
[ __ ]
but it was the kind of struggle in which
I had where I wasn't really able to
convey that I wasn't valuing the work
that I was doing because academia I like
learning things I got to show you all
the books I read my free time but
because of the fact that when you don't
do well in school my like in my
household you get beaten like and I
would make mistakes a lot and I didn't
saamiya cuz my brain like runs at ten
miles an hour so it's already hard for
me to sleep consistently so that it was
really hard to adapt to that when I was
a kid
so I'd sleep the next class and my
teachers called me lazy I got in trouble
a lot like me scratching myself and
stuff like that got me in trouble once
I'm sorry every time I got removed for
anything I had to get read slip and I
bring the rest at home
then it would lead to me getting beaten
so I'll be in class crying and things
over a red slip my teacher thinks I'm
this a child crying over beginning in
trouble when in reality because I'm game
like being at home and that's something
I still have any we unpacked yet but I
being Nigerian and recognizing these
long-term effects that because I think
my mom depression my anxiety stems from
a situational thing I wasn't maybe a
natural like inclination because I if I
had been in a better situation maybe I
wouldn't be dealing with the things in
which I do deal with but I think that
much of what my experiences as black
person has been feeling that life is
really worth living simply because the
colour might
again and things I've had to experience
and I went to abdominal white high
school I wasn't born here I was born in
Nigeria and I came when I was about two
years old and my mom is someone because
of being Nigerian I think you may have
Freitas already I don't know if you guys
know the Nigerian people but it's just
desire to be white designed for
whiteness not suit you look white
because I still want you to retain your
about or Nigerian culture but they want
they could like the conception of
whiteness is the ideology to follow into
and my mom was always happy with my
America like if I love the idea of me
dating a white girl or being more led to
like Akademi or being more into going to
like she wants she sees me in the white
house he's always told me things like
this and it it helped me at times to see
that she believed in me but it also felt
toxic in the sense that like if I didn't
do well I get B and when I did do well
to tell me she's proud of me but it's
stopping like the the rewards didn't
feel like they weighed into the like
negatives negatives always from way more
than the rewards and that thing I feel
like now I've realized me sometimes very
depressed over the past like four months
ago getting another fax four months
three months of corny virus when
everything was happening exactly I'm a
natural empath
I have a bad habit of taking like the
pain of others into myself but I
realized and around that time and I also
wasn't even be able to focus on school I
just got so tired of being in school and
cuz I must I was a something or going to
be a junior about a sophomore in college
20 years old but um I realized that the
abuse which I face makes it really hard
for me to be able to stick to things
because I get boarded them very quickly
I'm not sure if that's just natural
inclination but I'm trying to consider
the possibility the possibility now that
because of what I had to experience
growing up it became very hard for me to
express myself fully and also be able to
feel like school or any kind of project
that was created was worthwhile guys
write a lot of poetry and draw a lot
when I was growing up as a kid and I
helped me feel better when I was very
depressed but situations changed and I
felt I'll being able to do that but to
keep things simple bleep like as simple
as I could be being black never really
felt like I like a worthwhile thing
especially when I learned about police
brutality and things like that growing
up and learning about social justice and
learning about it
the world and how difficult it can be
simply just because of the color your
scans cool man thanks for that intro Eli
who wants to go next
Oh meet it
we got another boomer on here you're
very quiet and a little bit laggy oh
sorry
how's my microphone now is that all
perfect yeah why don't you go man
awesome yeah so thanks very much for
having me on the stream first and
foremost it's an absolute pleasure and
an honor to talk to you my name is mo I
go by a GBH short for a great big hug
I'm 26 I'm from Ontario Canada born and
raised here family's from North Africa
Libya and I have type two bipolar as
well it's tough yeah I struggle with my
identity all the time growing up I've
been told I'm not black enough I've been
told I'm too white I've been told I'm
not Arabic enough all that type of stuff
and it's difficult dealing with this
stigma behind mental health especially
your own community you get told
everything just pray more change your
diet you know don't believe in the
voodoo stuff all that type of [ __ ] but
it's it's it's I think my biggest
struggle personally just the stigmas
behind mental health and come to terms
with it especially within my own
community
cool thanks so do you prefer a GBH or mo
oh it works my works okay
cool man how about now yeah a little bit
better is there any way you can turn up
your volume a little bit okay my name is
Julian I'm a second year mechanical
engineer student thinks you've been also
like my therapist as well like she's
been really helpful
um but yeah I'm just taking time to
quarantine just get better work on
myself cool basically yeah Julie you're
still crackling a little bit or do you
guys hear him crackling uh yeah oh yeah
that's fine oh that was beautiful
whatever he said there just I don't know
what's wrong
okay so um thank you guys very much for
you know so you guys say you're all
grateful to be here I'm grateful to have
you guys I've I mean I think the people
is absolutely mutual
so let me just offer a couple of
thoughts and then maybe get us started
so the first thought that I want to say
is that you know we're here to talk
about you know the intersection of
basically like race and mental health
and the first thing that I want to point
out is that I I think it's you know it's
interesting that you guys have some
things that you kind of share in terms
of your perspective around or your
experience of mental health and and what
you sort of gained from your culture the
first thing that I want to say though is
that I don't I feel like most of what
we're gonna talk about is not gonna be
restricted to black people like I you
know I I know that when I went to India
for the first time like there was a guy
who had schizophrenia but I studied in
an ashram or a monastery and basically
like people thought he was possessed by
a demon and you know and that's long
that's like the way that they interpret
that so I think that like you know there
are a lot of different cultures that
have stigma against mental health I
think I'm hearing a lot of struggles
around identity which I don't think is
specific to a particular race or even
even race in general and at the same
time you know there are certainly common
themes about like religion and
conceptions of mental health and the way
that you guys were taught the way that
people around you conceptualize like
what were the challenges that you faced
and what kind of labels and treatment
you got because of your struggles and so
I just you know I think that there's
like sort of a tension there between
what applies to everyone and at the end
of the day I think that you know
different people of different than
ethnicities have fundamentally different
experiences in life and people of
different genders have different
experiences of life but I think what's
really cool about us and in our
community is that what brings us
together is far greater than what you
know separates us so I I just kind of
wanted to toss that out and you guys can
jump in kind of in any time does anybody
like does anybody want to comment or
reflect on that or I've got it
I agree completely I think you're
absolutely right I think the
intersectionality is not only within the
black community but in so many cultures
and communities across the globe even
when it comes to things like religion
that affects a lot of communities
- so I absolutely agree with you as well
yeah cool William I'd like my closest
friends are
can you move forward he like Oh many of
my friends are of different races for
the very fact that we all relate to the
same childhood experiences that
regardless of where we come from were
like overarching cultural there doesn't
have been cool yeah so so there are
three basic themes that I kind of heard
maybe a couple people like tying
together one is a sense of like identity
like I thought it was interesting how
you know Eli was I wonder Eli if you
were basically rewarded for being things
that people around you thought was quote
unquote more white and yes you know like
it's kind of interesting right so like
that that that you weren't rewarded for
being you you were rewarded for being
what they wanted you to be not having
the law in school as well so no matter
where I went it was the same kind of
thing and that's where code-switching
was always a thing I had to comprehend
since I was a child so when you're
precocious I think many other guys in
here can understand this or you're a
precocious person of color and there's I
think here in the Boston is but I'm in
Boston here in Boston especially it's
the kind of thing where you get
compliments on while your English is so
good or wow you're really smart for that
I thought were you like I said from
Nigeria I have these white kids from
Southie
South Boston say so yeah don't you guys
live in huts don't you guys live in
teepees like nah I'm from Legos one of
the most developed parts of West Africa
and like the conception of what it means
to be African or what it means to be
Nigerian just a dish it was always right
in the forefront my head and because of
that I had the constant experience of
being seen as a bush boy a kwang-ho bush
boy this is the thing in my in my
culture bush boys like someone who is um
honey like say how do I describe English
someone who is not raised properly and
they see that is your baseline level so
when you perform above that you see that
oh wow you're here so intelligent
and I thought that it was a really weird
thing to experience but I tried to learn
to define it but I can never really take
pride in it because I'd peers who were
not treated the same peers who were
black and people of color in general but
especially the black guys in my grades
they weren't treated the same way simply
because the fact that they didn't have
that same way with words that has the
Charter yeah so I think we can talk
about identity another thing that we
could talk about is like I'm hearing you
guys use the phrase piece of [ __ ] or
lazy a fair amount like I'm just lazy
and and we could kind of dig into like
what that means or where that comes from
and the third thing that we could talk
about you know it sounds like you guys
had a couple of really cultural
intersections with mental health in
terms of stigma prayer you know it
sounded like Raymond was basically like
you know told to pray the mental health
away and and so you know we could talk a
little bit about that what do you guys
think or you know if you all have a
suggestion for something that you'd like
to talk about then you know by all means
but those are kind of the three things
that seem to kind of unite a few
different perspectives here so identity
being a lazy piece of [ __ ] and stigma
and prayer I guess I would like to talk
about one other thing I guess being
black in the gaming culture because
sometimes I feel like I have to change
my voice all after kind of like hide my
face because there's kind of a few I
don't know saying I guess um people hide
behind the animal anonymity of being
online and they feel free to say
whatever they want and sometimes it kind
of hurts like maybe it's like a 13 year
old kid
on Call of Duty or on whatever food
lands free or whatever and play and
saying the most racist thing that you if
the UM their parents heard they would I
don't know so I guess that's something
else I would like to talk about just
being blind community desire to scream
but I've always been in my head about
series of things my brain likes to find
excuses but once
I can't get past is like the use of
certain emotes and like especially when
you have to understand social justice
and you see that there's so much use of
racial emote racial emotes to talk about
like when they're a stereotype comes
over a caricature they use the email in
relation to that caricature and why is
it that one like stealing is talked
about stream they start using a black
like the c'mon bro trihard and things
like that like and I don't want to be
the person to like ruin people's fun
I've always try to not be that person
but is this something that I personally
like this I just find it really
difficult to get past a lot of time yes
so like what is it like being a black
gamer I mean I feel like it almost oh no
it definitely ties right back into that
identity thing like on the like it's
just a common theme like okay when I'm
with a bunch of other black people all
right I'm the African guys so I'm not
really one of them alright if I'm with
white people on the black guy I'm not
really one of them when when I'm with
gamers no I'm you know black gamer not
really one of them so you're not really
always feels like I'm not really allowed
to be part of any group so yeah it just
feels like the same thing over and over
again it feels a lot like being the butt
of the joke sometimes it feels a lot
like especially when I play something
like League of Legends that's known for
having a toxic community sometimes it's
tough realizing that you're the c'mon
bro you're the trihard seven or you're
the the mean that's being made fun of
and it sucks that your culture is the
butt of the joke and and it's weird
seeing that level of toxicity so
normalized to I can't tell you how many
often times growing up seeing just so
much toxic behavior on online gaming and
it's always a black community and it's
tough it sucks being that part of the
joke yeah and look at black people have
seems to serve as the punchline in a lot
of jokes too and I think that person for
me like certain streamers I like I'll
find them funny but it's also that
racial agitation as a joke has always
been like a pretty common thing on this
platform like I don't like to call names
like I like Greek god X I think he I
respect his property maybe his weight
loss the things he's done to improve
yourself as a
but like his liberal use a trial heart
throughout all of his screaming career
and the way in which he look like he
doesn't take seriously when it's being
used or even mostly being used it
stimulates this idea of trihard seven
and I feel like I don't want to take
that see I won't see you as a joke and
see like oh yeah this joking but so I
have a couple questions but first can
you guys start by explaining to me what
these terms mean I I don't know what
kind of like poke jump that's like
excitement a common broad be is a
picture or 'man of a black person as
well as the tripod which is of trihex
which FEMA and people use it for
whenever something seen as black comes
on stream and they would spam that email
so so the the emotes are actually like
of people with dark skin yes and you're
referencing actual black because for a
second there because I use the word
trihard a lot but yeah but that's the
different context than the original
cause my priority I talk like you're
trying harder the game arts yeah exactly
that's the rich that's a proper use of
trihard trihex is a streamer on Twitch
who's black and here an emo it his email
from way back when when teachers are
like in the early stages of Twitch got
it and he is the one who and I think
he's originally a track around it's like
a Kona cake alone it was a real person
from twitch and that's the only email on
Twitch at the time and he uploaded it to
test I think was test a test stream
latches test nightbot well nonetheless
these are like an L is another one of
those ones who describes a Muslim person
and I think Nam describes an Asian
person but I'm not sure which
nationality specifically but there's so
many different ones they're literally
just a person who is of a specific race
that that's crazy I didn't realize I
mean I guess it's no surprise that
they're racist emotes but but I wasn't
aware of that so I'm kind of curious um
mo you were talking about sort of like
you know sort of how can I say like
there's almost a certain constancy to
what you guys face
in terms of like it's like I'm just
hearing all of you guys talk about
gaming and that there's like just an
additional layer of [ __ ] that keeps you
from having fun when you gain like what
does that make sense like I don't know
how else to put it
what is that yeah how does that do to
you
uh it makes me it makes me want to build
up barriers and it makes me like develop
a thicker skin I find like seeing like
for example playing World of Warcraft or
League of Legends I see so many people
whose usernames are just altered
spellings of the n-word or big n-word or
something like that like just finding
some way to be to use that word in any
term it's and it feels as almost if it's
as if it's like super force on their
part but when I see that you grow like
indifferent to it you recognize that
that's not you you recognize that that's
not true you realize that like you just
have to develop these barriers I find to
just have such a thicker skin because of
it yeah so like you know that actually
seems so insidious to me because it's
like you have to you have another layer
of like cognitive [ __ ] that you're
dealing with you mean you're playing a
game like I've experienced a fair amount
of racism in my life like I grew up in
East Texas and I'm brown and you know
any color except for white in in sexist
you know you deal with racism and at the
same time though when I play video games
like I never think about my ethnicity
unless I'm like doing an Indian accent
and being as racially offensive as
possible you know and so I'm just like
I'm just imagining that when you guys
like play games it's sort of like you
have to do some kind of like work or
it's just hard for you to just like play
a game yeah you got to keep up the
quotes which even while you're playing
the game if you want to play games of
random people and then you end up miner
queueing with a kid who who this as soon
as he hears a black guy's voice these
things he needs to start acting some
kind of way or start saying the n-word
to start doing something extra and the
beats the kind of thing it's not just
gaming but like even just being out in
public in general the first time I
really experienced like being seen as a
stereotype like fully was one that guy
from France this um this exchange doing
it I wasn't mad about it I'm about this
this is a bigger portrayal about how
black people character or black people
in the
but the first thing he did when he saw
me was throw gang signs say and
everywhere so say hi and I understood
that he was trying to be nice and you
that's us but is this a caricature and
character something that has always
bothered me since I was very young this
because you recognize the ways in which
black people have been even like similar
not as black people any race for that
matter days and white has been
assimilated in society was through their
caricature so if you've played into the
caricature you played into those ways in
which were already seen that people have
the question then you can find success
in the conventional society you can
assimilate into heteronormative parts of
society yeah that's deep man I'm also
kind of just noticing that you guys have
a I'm sourcing another identity piece
here to that like you know it seems like
you guys are just not treated for who
you are it's like 80% of who you are or
maybe even less than 20% of like what
people think you are yeah yeah for sure
what's that like time in a row it's very
tiring and that's what places my
depression as well because and it just
makes being alive and having to be an
actor in the world very tiring it feels
like I'm constantly putting on a face
and it feels like I shouldn't have to do
that either
that won't keep all my have is like
watching black kids have to get used to
hearing the n-word why should they have
to even get like Mama's having to get
used to ignorant now this black kids for
any race for that matter why'd you have
to get used to ignorant it's like of
course you should go thick-skinned a
virgin who learn to not be too sensitive
but why is that some of that person
should have to get used to why should
they have to get used to hate yeah
what's it like to have to get used to
hate
and I don't know if you want to jump in
because I can't face I was kind of
thinking a lot because like in high
school a lot of times like the way I
would just like to kind of like
customize to fit in basically I was just
always making like jokes about myself or
whatever
Demaryius well that was until my teacher
like pointed them out you like join I
like you okay do you like hey no it's
like you think it's funny so play along
and now it's just horrible Julian your
voice is still coming through kind of
robotic oh sorry
there we go would you go okay I move my
mic to play a game that's like oh yeah I
just moved it a bit okay great yeah now
it's - what what did you hear
not much okay I'll try I'll try that
again I'm in high school I'm like I had
so and they were like it's like Florida
it's kind of like a deep south oh
they're pretty racist and like just fit
in I would just make myself and
everything and they got some of my we
were like some of my teachers were like
concerned that like I actually hated my
face or something I was like no I don't
really care it's just like makes them
laugh like I'll just be with and that's
not so it sounds like you're living an
actor - yeah but it's it's really like
tired like I think you said to be like
using like a willpower to keep going and
I'm like at some point start to run out
hearing other people kind of say that -
I'm kind of curious
it was aachen is that right am i
pronouncing that right uh not exactly
but I take aachen as well knocking
knocking okay
yeah Hawking and and Raymond do y'all
want to jump in like what's any thoughts
about what we're talking about
yeah I mean now that I mean now that
people are talking about it I'm kind of
like reflecting on like so for high
school I went to a predominantly white
school and like at the time I was a
loner and I was like okay that's just my
thing
which is true to an extent but I do
think that being one of like three black
guys in high school made me much more
extremely of a loner
and I think it was yeah and I think it
was there was a lot of like these guys
it felt like these guys had never seen a
black person before so they just had all
these really dumb like these really dumb
black jokes like not intended to be
offensive but they're like wow I've
never gotten to use this before kind of
thing and it was just like it's just
like a constant like facepalm kind of
situation and but you know that like I
know they don't have a bad intention to
it so it's just like I guess I just got
to sit here and listen to this nonsense
every single day and I think that it
does highlight the difference between us
and made it easier for me to feel
isolated and I already would have
probably like I already would have
isolated myself a little but that just
made it extreme where I was like talking
to almost no one oh yeah I'm for me I
guess for in terms of being an actor I
come from South London and I'm Nigerian
as well so we have a lot of slang that
we use but working in like a
professional environment I felt like I
had to act a certain way to kind of
survive if that makes sense
so um I guess trying to be understand
what that means
so if like being myself or I'm using
like slang terms that I may use like it
may be a joke but I fam and prov if you
guys might like
I guess like in the professional setting
where let's say like it is a boardroom
and everyone speaking a posture and in
posh English sort of way I felt like I
had to imitate that too
- if that makes us have to imitate that
- I guess to survive in the workplace
and I felt like sometimes I had to also
be overly friendly as well so like when
I go into elevators and stuff like that
I'm smiling everyone that knows me in my
personal life um I try to be kind or
wherever possible but um whenever I
can't but um when I go into an elevator
the first ring first instincts of like a
woman would be like to clench onto her
handbag or say oh he scared me when I'm
just walking like a normally walk is I'm
not trying to be scary I'm just me um
and I guess yeah just having to be
overly friendly so I don't scare anyone
um I feel like yeah that's how I feel in
terms of acting in the workplace a lot
yeah we have to be constantly aware of
the fact that people see you in some
kind of way and that's why I don't like
being around cops I've never liked being
around even when doing nothing wrong
I've been put like stops I'm lucky I'm
lucky telling you stop twice in my life
but each of the contexts in which I
would stop a little something stupid and
just because the fact I'm walking around
while being black in the neighborhood
that's apparently supposed to be Dom new
UI and I've growing up in like here in
Boston this is Dorchester and there's
South Boston and I went I grew up going
to a school from fifth to twelfth grade
that was predominantly white because it
bordered between those two neighborhoods
and because of that experienced I found
that you always have to be walking on
because even when I was we had like
debates on things black lives matter
back in 2014 during the Ferguson riots
there were always the perspective of
these kids and I've never got angry at
them so much is the fact that I was just
sad that their own ignorance because
they were unwilling to learn or only to
see a world outside themselves which
song says black lives matter it doesn't
mean that other people's lives don't
matter
that is making a statement and you can
also say Asian lives matter we can say
Hispanic lives matter you could say
Indian lives matter you can say so many
people's lives matter but it doesn't
devalue the lives of other people
but other people still have the desire
to say that no all lives matter but why
should you even have split no before
that I think those two things are not
mutually exclusive they can coexist but
I had to find that most of my childhood
was having to educate people on I don't
like the closest phrases you have to
educate your oppressor to say the least
that's and that's the closest thing I
can understand to be able to express
like much of my life has been trying to
educate people on where I'm coming from
and not being defined my skin can you
guys explain to us what what black lives
matter means to you yeah to me black
lives matter too I think that's what
people sometimes forget is that we're
not seeing only black lives matter we're
saying black lives matter too and I
think that's the biggest distinction
when I hear it like growing up in Canada
it's I hear more polite forms of racism
being told something like all lives
matter or being told that there's only
one race and that's human you're
undermining the true ethnicity that I am
you're undermining my experiences and
the shared experiences of many cultures
and many diasporas and when you when you
say something like all lives matter yeah
obviously we get that our lives do
matter but black lives matter too that's
my plan and racists have literally
employed Lee what he just said there's
only one race in the human race but we
have the right to say we want to keep
this place white I've literally heard
those words verbatim in the interview I
wish I could pull it up right now but in
the interview that Oprah wrench we did a
long time ago I forget which location
that was but it was location would that
- filled with tons of um hate crimes
against black people and where the levy
has Brady anywhere in places that black
people congregate and it's the
experience that clouds matter to me is
that no matter how wrong the crime a
black person has committed he don't
deserve to die on the street like a dog
and I've had to select my especially now
with the protester but having recently I
think I should seek men's out this
mental health help mental health help
with this because after have
to see so many black people die in the
street and like you shouldn't having to
see people bleed out like usually you're
seeing it you're with your own eyes are
you seeing like what what human being
looks like as they're dying especially a
black like this for two cops hitting the
person down and they're not holding
still for any whatever reason might be
they just get shot and killed and then
they hang cuff them and I just had to
see that at least ten times in the past
week alone and it's I feel like the fact
I'm so desensitized to it bothers me a
lot
because I'm the kind of person who's
naturally apathetic and I feel other
people's fit pain very strongly and I'm
at the point where I can look at that
and I just I can I keep I can keep I
just character keeps growing and that's
why I haven't been on social media that
much recently because as much as I want
to be retweeting what's happening and
trying to spread awareness about what's
happening the revolution that's going on
it is difficult in the sense that you
succeed how much would like Keibler why
did why did why does it take people to
die for justice to come why do we wait
has to wait until after Brianna Taylor
is dead or George Florida is dead or
Armen Aubree's dead or Tamir rice is
dead like so many young black people and
black trans people - or black people of
any kind of identity why do they have to
die first for justice a sense of like it
shouldn't be this way that's what I'm
hearing like in it it's not it's not
just people dying although you know
definitely applies there but like even
just you know just the way you guys grew
up and like when I'm thinking about
Raymond walking into a boardroom like
you just can't speak like he I and I'm
inferring that you sort of speak
differently and I use you guys just it's
I don't know how to it's like you guys
are playing life like on hardmode it's
like what's the normal game and then
there's the game with like all this
other like layer of [ __ ] piled on top
maybe Gioconda on the games that they
made um the black if you made your
character black yeah
20 percent greater chance to be stopped
by the police like minus five to speech
or like people's reactions to you or
like you know get a job you get rejected
immediately yep the big day it's really
like what I think about playing a game
I've been playing like I don't know if
y'all played total war but I've been
I've been playing a lot of total war and
it's like literally like the game just
you know on hardmode it's like you just
get like penalties to everything it's
like number of people you can connect
with easily at school goes down from
like 52 it's just like I mean I'm
laughing about it but I mean it sounds
[ __ ] awful like it just it just just
harder like it sounds a little bit more
tiring a little bit more exhausting it
sounds like you guys just have to spend
a little bit more energy or maybe even a
lot more energy to kind of do things I'm
really curious though Raymond it's just
so fascinating though what do you think
would happen if you didn't change the
way that you spoke um
I've got no idea I have to try it to
find all yeah yeah I mean although I
think would happen I guess it would be a
lot harder for people to understand me
because I work in a global company and
there's people from all around the world
so when we do like a zoom call or a
WebEx cool if I was to speak in a South
London accent or pidgin English which is
dialect in the Yerba culture which is in
Nigeria it will I would think that it's
it would be a lot harder for people to
understand what I'm saying because of it
being a another dialect or Lang it's the
same language but yeah it was a bit
harder to understand I guess maybe I can
try try and discuss them trying this and
see if you guys on sunny you want to go
for it I was just kind of curious like
you know what what happens when you guys
because I
this kind of comes back to identity that
you know so I'm getting the sense that
it's hard for y'all to be like fully
authentic and yeah I'm kind of curious
like have you guys so you know I think
that a lot of times we learn the
behaviors that we do right so like we
learn to put up barriers we learn or the
reason that we put up areas is because
when we don't have barriers we get hurt
in some way so I'm kind of curious have
you guys had periods of your life or
things that you remember where you like
really did try to be you and you were
like punished for it I mean I guess kind
of start like move back home I have like
the greatest childhood and he he doesn't
allow me to think for myself I think I
was talking about I wanted to do again
the future just like I was like what
cool and he said like if I did that I
would be failing him and like oh yeah
basically when I came home oh is that
better
yes yeah yeah okay I'll try it's like
this law only wants you to transmit the
words is that better hopefully this
works um but when I came back home and
I'm just around my relationship I tried
it like I was thinking about like maybe
looking into psychology because I
wouldn't want to work on like a prison
reform like better committed to the work
force afterwards and I told my dad this
and he told me he like if I did that I
wouldn't fail and all the work you do
and I gave him like a second chance like
a be like triple down on it I'll say
I'm gonna be stuff Julian I'm just gonna
ask someone else to just kind of reflect
back what they heard just because it
didn't come through entirely clearly did
somebody want to just share hurt from
Julian yes right so Julian's saying that
you want side of psychology program well
he was talking to his dad he wanted to
do something different with psychology I
could help with Prison Reforms and
people get reactivated Society and he
well his father disagreed and said that
you shouldn't do that and they talked
about it again and if I'll double down
on it and I think he said that he has to
be material on his own and that's beyond
his own to be able to figure to get be
and do the things he wants to do yeah I
mean I don't I don't want to skip the
part where he his dad said if you do
that you will waste everything that I've
done for you yeah by god that's [ __ ]
brutal Jesus does that resonate with you
for a particular reason I mean it sounds
like um I mean my like my parents are I
mean my mom is very is actually very
nice but like I think from every other
Nigerian American that I've ever met
there is just a lot of pressure to like
be like the best ever though at this
point at this what I mean my mom is like
pretty mellow at this point but it's
already so deep in my psyche that that's
just my own internal voice at this point
so I yeah I would like that would be my
own mind telling me like yeah if you do
this other thing then you're naughty
you're wasting all of the efforts of of
your parents of of everything that
you've done up to this point so it
resonates on that level same here bro
like that's new to me too and I've had
the connotation my mom because college
is very difficult thing for me and I
tried having the conversation my mom
seemed this defer for last semester
because I wasn't doing well in school
because my rising much messed up my
first year and even got so heated to the
point
where he said if he thinks he knows so
much better he can live on his own and I
like that she would say that because I
it really mess with my mental for a
little while and still does in a lot of
ways but I also struggled with the fact
that she only sees me an extension of
herself especially when I got my first
tattoo
it became the kind of thing where I
wasn't able to be who I wanted me for
myself there was only about how she saw
me who she thought I needed to be in the
world and all her fears and trip and
she's also a Christian she wants to be a
minister so that's that on top of all
the other things you know it's but I'm
lucky that she is at least as accepting
as she is because my brother is
transferred female male and he has been
able to experience that for himself and
be a human being in the world and be a
full person in the world because she
listens to what I have to say one day
and was able to accept that but her
where her beliefs aside Elaine be who he
is so I do believe there's a hope for my
relationship with my mom but just being
able to understand how to talk to her
and make amends with all the things in
which we have dealt with because she had
been in a similar situation as Alfonso I
was gonna say like Oh super wholesome
you said your brother yeah brother I'm
out here I guess have you guys found
sorry I wanted to say something I just
lost its right of it yeah so I you know
it sounds like Julian's dad was pretty
rough on him it sounds like a keen and
Eli's mom mother's have been pretty
supportive I'm curious what about it
like how what's been he also
relationship with your dad or if Moe or
Raymond want to jump in like a so it
sounds like family dynamics are pretty
different yes so my parents emigrated to
the UK when off in their late 20s so um
they had a lot of expectations when I
was younger so I'm guessing this is
similar to lot of immigrant cultures
where is Eva
first class which is an A in the u.s. or
bust so this this is I think my second
time trying uni University and I'm
liking it a lot more now but now that
I've said okay I'm just going to do my
best is not I have to get a first class
I have to get 70% half to get the A+ is
it's just me trying my best but um I
struggled a lot with perfectionism
because um the only time I saw my dad
happy was when I came home with the
level 5 which is like the yeah with the
height which is like a high school in
primary school I guess the terms let me
let me translate the American middle
school miss school that might be okay
like the high school in middle school if
I got like a seeds like why didn't you
get an eighth if I get one got my 4% why
didn't you why did you miss that 6%
because it was sort of point where um
yeah it's never like yes it's never it
was never enough unless it was a hundred
percent and even if it was a hundred
percent it was just a yes yeah let's see
you do again yeah exactly
so yeah going through therapy it out on
tank all of those mental models I had of
perfectionism I have to get that a
because a lot of back I couldn't control
and all I could do was my best and when
I got to the the person was marking it
maybe if they're having a bad day or
they had the argument their girlfriend
they might be like okay let me give this
person their 65 is over 70 and yeah yeah
herpes helped a lot but I feel like he
is something does I shared amongst all
of us here
well he's Louis I just wanted to care
apply my mom has been supportive but for
it's only within things that fit her
frame her paradigm and slowly she's
coming out of that but like I relate to
what he just said so strongly and it's
still a problem that I deal with right
now my mom because college is just I
want to help people my life but I just
don't like a key
any more and just in methods this past
three months was really hard for me
simply because I could not even get
myself the type of word in an essay and
I was struggling with this doing online
classes simply I it just felt like all
the trauma of academia was rising up in
me in that moment and I wasn't able to
perform anymore because there just
didn't feel worth de anymore and I get
to that point so many times with school
alright so let me actually ask you guys
first so like what do you guys think
about our discussion so far is the only
thing they don't talk more about or
anything that I think is just like to
kind of check in with you guys what do
you guys how do you think we're doing I
think I think a night Opik we should
touch on as well as the idea of like
normality and the idea within cultures
of like what is normal and I are
supposed to be a true African I supposed
to be a healthy person I also struggle a
lot with like toxic masculinity as well
I find it's really prevalent in a lot of
our culture especially amongst youth and
especially amongst the older heads as
well it's you know real men don't cry
and real men don't have these feelings
and real men aren't this and real men
aren't sick and all that type of stuff
and it's those stigmas that really
affected me personally I remember I'm
thankful in the sense that my family has
been pretty supportive in a lot of
aspects especially with my mental health
but it took them a while to work up to
that it took them a while to get used to
it I struggle a lot with my peers I find
that it's difficult to be myself around
certain groups of friends and especially
growing up in high school I had that
issue a lot naturally I'm a very
energetic and flamboyant person but I
have to tone that down and I have to you
know not be gay or not be this way or
not be that or in stuff like that not be
too black not be too Arabic and not be
too whatever and I think it's a similar
what Raymond deals with in the board
room like it's you have to police your
own language and you have to police
yourself and it sucks and it's straining
to have to constantly do that so let's
talk about that mo so in the chat
someone in the chat said define sorry
interrupt the Sun sets that define toxic
masculinity talk so toxic masculinity
visit my personal experience of my
understanding the definition was it's
the kind of mescaline that forces you to
be a specific kind of way isn't matter
what way that is but usually it's
aggressive hyper-masculinity
that is the toxic kind of thing and
things that devalue you if you don't fit
the common frame what a man is and my
mom is also like women also perpetuate
and my culture at least perpetuate that
same thing I'm supposed to be the man of
the house originally being the only boy
in the family being the man of the house
is making her believing that I have to
be responsible for things or acting a
certain kind of way to look a certain
kind of way or perform in certain ways
simply because I'm a guy anybody else
want to add to he lies definition thanks
for that man kind of it's how do I
explain those it's kind of what I like
the world's kind of just jumping their
own like you go but you should be on you
and usually it's just like like why
aren't you doing this and like why are
you doing this sort of this and you
should be like everyone else to here
like you should yeah that's level rather
than work that right now really yeah
yeah I I hate that there are strong
feelings of shame when it comes to toxin
masculinity you feel embarrassed that
because you're not a certain way or you
feel like like it's always people
shaming you into acting a certain way
and that's never a good motivator I
don't think for like how would it be and
neither is that correct in the first
place Oh what have you been shamed into
doing I guess having like a traditional
job having a traditional career with my
family
acting a certain way being traditionally
Arabic being traditionally Muslim being
traditionally African being the
breadwinner of the family and it's it's
it's tough because I get told like when
I first was found that life was going
through my manic phases and I had my
dealings with bipolar disorder it was
tough because I was told to just pray it
away I was told to you know just
exercise and eat right don't listen to
your doctor he's giving you pills don't
take the pills but none of that should
work for me I know that shit's never
worked for me it was always seeking
genuine help and like being able to come
out of my own barrier and my own comfort
zone to accept that I need help and to
go forward with that and it sucks cuz
it's like I have to break through so
many learned behaviors that I was shamed
into into feeling like it like if it's
really tough it's really tough
yeah I'm gonna ask people if they've had
a similar experience but I just want to
comment for a second cuz you said you
had to break through your own barriers
to accept help I think they're really
insidious thing is you don't have to
break through your barriers you had to
break through the barriers that people
put around mm-hmm right like the idea
that you can't get help or that you
shouldn't get help or you know help is
for the weak is not something that came
from you it came from the people around
me and and I I just want to be a little
bit careful I'm a big fan of like
personal growth and overcoming your own
challenges but I'm what I'm hearing from
you guys pretty overwhelmingly is that
like the challenges that you guys face
or not ones that you put up its the
challenges that people put on you right
like 94% isn't good enough even 100
percent isn't good enough you've got to
do it like what about tomorrow you know
and and I think what I'm hearing from
you guys over and over and over again is
that it's not like it's not you it's the
people around you and the expectations
that you put on yourself and then
eventually you end up thinking like like
Hakeem does with like oh I'm a lazy
piece of [ __ ] and get my confidence back
I should do a project all on my own I'm
curious what are you the rest you guys
think about that I've been there and I
felt that so strongly especially when I
was you into seven years old because
when my teacher said I was lazy that's
because I couldn't focus in class
because I was not able to be the person
that my everybody tells me I need to be
to be successful in this life and that
made me feel as I can never really be
successful in my own personal dreams and
maybe on lose desire to do anything this
creative constructive or pursue anything
outside of academia because it felt as
though that was worthless the eyes of
everybody around me what do you guys do
like I can't place it
sorry never say I'm sorry the thing is
the lack of the belief was yes so what
do you guys think about our teens plan
and sorry if I'm sort of shifting gears
for a second but I just can't let this
slide because at the end of the day like
I feel like yeah I want to tackle
something with you guys and and I
noticed that I just can't help myself in
the sense that I get I get the sense
that I Keane is a little bit stuck right
now
and and we should think about that
because you all have felt that way too
and I can't sorry if I'm putting you on
the spot man
no it's great so like what do you guys
think about his plan of like finishing a
project on himself so he can build
confidence I understand why he feels the
need to do that because I kind of picked
on that myself
yeah just just with like general
schooling like like last like towards
the end I had a friend die and then my
grades dropped not really um so then the
next semester I didn't like accept help
from anyone else like I'm gonna do with
this mister myself to prove it I can't
continue being an engineer like I did a
lot better
other people are thoughts I've tried
I started writing everyday I think I'm
not sure if it was you I think it was
you motivating you start writing more
every day when I was watching one of
your strings but I that's one project
and I started drawing trying to be more
creative saw my own I wrote a first poem
I've read in years
I just tried I think that's my personal
product maybe but I couldn't understand
his need to do that to feel creative but
I mean fueled I can stick well well is
it doing it as a solution to get back on
track but for me work doing more work
has always been more inversely
proportional to my happiness
yeah I would agree with that as well and
so for me I've got like an assignment
dude in one month or whenever I look at
the top of the mountain okay I've got
five thousand requests to write it
sounds so crazy like ah how am I gonna
find the time um but breaking up into
small simple steps so I've got like some
productivity journals and I've been
reading a book called limitless by Jim
quick and he talks about something
called small simple steps so I always
think about okay what's a small thing
that I definitely can't feel it so it
might be okay
something really small okay let me open
up the word document okay let me write a
title let me write one sentence let me
search this journal let me search this
journal and every single time I hit one
of those accomplishments I feel a
greater sense of of calm confidence in
myself that okay I might be able to do
this so I hours out here also I could
not point that um a small project can
help you with confidence a key one thing
too that happened to me though in
relation to what you just expect what
you just said so I learned that too from
this book called Isola I'm not giving a
[ __ ] and I also went to the game with
him TED Talks and also dr. Kane talked
about being the bare minimum and that
was what got me start writing again but
I started having that before
when they came to those essays and
depression I was doing with those past
three months and I was dealing with so
it's like I couldn't I wasn't trying to
do that one word or those like English
tight like the title this feeling of I
couldn't breathe was rise up and ruin me
and I wouldn't even be able to do that
and I think that's something that has
taught me that I need to reevaluate a
lot of things about my life because I
was in the place where like I was saying
with the abuse and things why do I feel
as though there's no point even doing
this anymore I can't get myself do the
bare minimum and before I was able to
motivate myself using my mom's like how
how she had to work and how everything
she sacrificed to come to America and
everything she sacrificed for us to have
the life that we have I was able to let
that motivate me for a while but that
just doesn't work anymore and I was very
I became very spiritual - over the past
year after reading power of now learning
how to meditate and be able to have the
ability to bring mindfulness into each
moment that really helped me get through
the past year but for some reason to
stop being enough so let me let me just
ask I'm curious about that Eli but let
me just go back to a keen for a second
aki do you get the sense that so julian
use the phrase prove it I can do you get
the sense that like completing a project
on your own is proving something
absolutely what are you trying to prove
I mean on a very like like on a very
logical level I do like I do think I
actually need to prove that I can do the
work given that I was fired and it would
be a very good story to tell at my
interview that I completed a project and
have sole whatever issue got me fired in
the first place but then on a more
emotional level I like getting fired
from that job was kind of like the
natural culmination of like how I've
always done things I have always
happiness everything had been lazy for
literally my entire life and so I would
like to prove to myself that that is no
longer a thing at some point and I guess
I want this to be the proof of that so
I'm sure that your colleagues and
sympathize with that I'm kind of curious
Raymond when you were talking about you
know opening up the word document and
putting the title on there are you
trying to prove anything
yeah that I can't do something because
um I'm 23 now and I've been diagnosed
I'm not sure if is why is to say some of
the diagnosis of I've had but yeah
hopefully it helps someone and so I've
been diagnosed recently with ADHD
anxiety and depression and sorry an
adult age and yeah that felt weird to
say that um like whenever I told some
somebody does it feel it felt like an
excuse that I love the time when I was
like trying to read my textbooks I was
like okay how come I can't read this
trying to read for 20 minutes and how
come it's not going into my head I'll
try and read the again and I hear like a
bird outside wall and I get distracted I
have to focus back on the book and yeah
so and what was the question but yeah it
was limiting me and I kind of resented
it before that like I was always just
upset that I was a TD or everyone it was
affecting like my productivity and
everything and I don't really talk about
kind of them it sounds to me like what
you're feeling is that you know you
always knew that something was really
hard for you but your other people
didn't understand it and it was like
we're trying to tell people like hey
this is actually hard like I'm not I'm
not stupid
let me sit down and I work hard and the
letters just don't come into my head
after 20 minutes you know and then
people basically held you to a standard
that was not who you are
and it comes back to identity it's like
you tried to tell people who you are and
and what just think about this right
because we think about ADHD is an
illness or a deficiency and so it's even
weird for me to say like you are like
you were a completely normal human being
in that moment and the world didn't
treat you that way and it can be hard
for you to find a reason and even then I
don't I don't know if you guys have seen
me like talk about ADHD before but I
think basically like you guys aren't ill
it's just your brain is not designed to
look at a text book for an hour because
there are lots of different brains and
and like when we were evolving like no
human being had to sit in one place for
an hour and stare at one object and and
I kind of talked a little bit about
hunters versus farmers and hunters or
people that are taking in a lot of
different stimuli and new environments
and then there are farmers that like to
wake up the same time every day and do
the same thing every day until they die
and there are different kinds of brains
many people are wondering you know
Raymond is a toughie which is kind of
interesting because your ADHD is about
that kind of mindset but but yeah I mean
I think what I'm hearing from you
Raymond is really that like it feels
somewhat liberating together a diagnosis
is that fair yeah I would definitely
agree with that because all this time I
was told that I was late lazy I'm not
trying hard enough even though I'll try
ok let me read this textbook for 2 hours
but it's just not going in I'm trying my
hardest place it was it was so difficult
but it kind of felt like a sense of
relief that okay there's something I can
do about it it's not it's not that I'm
hopeless it's something I can work on
and yeah that bus world say own it for
sure
I can walk with Moses I was it sorry
what was this wants me to ask Alfons or
think it's Julius I'm sure you want
Julian yeah he wants us to see if you
can use your phone on your webcam mic or
your phone oh I'll try the right now
thanks Eli hello hey still hear me yeah
yeah better all right good fixed thanks
Eli so I can't let me ask you something
how long have you felt like you're a
lazy piece of [ __ ] I'm trying to
remember if there was a time where I was
like seven or eight or so right so like
I'm kind of curious like you know when
were you guys taught these things about
yourself you feel - it's like when you
fail to perform I guess and you feel
that you fail to perform precision gauge
because math was something I really
struggle with as a kid so you have it's
reinforced in me since I was a child
because my mom would get angry at me for
not doing well when I was younger but I
tried to get help with my met with
schoolwork but it never really more
fruit also I found a teacher as a Poulos
compatible with as a person who
understood how I learned and I got lucky
- yeah I've gotten that when I was in
the fifth grade for my because although
I almost got held back because I had to
go to counseling for depression for two
weeks
and my grades dropped while I was away
now in two weeks I think was longer than
that but I was away from school for a
while because they sent me to get
counseling for depression at this
program and they were sending in my
homework or somehow somehow I said
started up failing for that year and I
had to go with this math tutor who I end
up actually becoming close to as a male
mentor because I don't have a father at
home so is that kind of less like a
pseudo father figure that I had at the
time Julian you wanted to say something
basically like my dad was always like I
would always work with it and you're
like construction jobs basically and I
would my brother he's a little bit young
he'd do something like lately wrong and
I'm like you know like he can get away
with that like why can't I my dad Julian
just stopped half-assing everything like
constantly the girl was always like the
freight it's like I was just always told
that I was a lazy piece of [ __ ] and I
was having everything and it wasn't like
I got out of that environment when I was
able to like figure out like no I can't
be a productive person that's possible
I'm sorry but Julian is it possible to
change your mic to the webcam because
you turned on your webcam but it
actually didn't change the microphone
okay yeah your webcam may not have just
like an inbuilt microphone or the
alternative is to use like a mobile
device phone for discord
oh I'm sorry I didn't realize you're
typing in the phones pound see I'm not
the only boomer a way to talk okay now
you're meeting uh you know why you may
have to move this is gonna be kind of
weird turn the webcam off but move the
webcam closer to you if you can
phone okay does that have discordant you
can't hear you yeah you're muted and
he's gonna try to connect through this
one yeah oh saved okay beautiful
pause noise thank you thanks Moses yeah
I mean I I think it just comes back like
I'm just hearing this theme over and
over again about like you guys are just
not allowed to be yourselves you know
whether it's whether it's race or
whether it's like parental expectations
or whether it's like mental health
issues or you know like religious
beliefs or you know like a minute start
so young like I really don't I mean I
don't I think that lazy piece of [ __ ] is
just a poor diagnostic term it's how we
feel because we don't understand what's
going on right it's like telling someone
who has cancer that they're weak because
no one understands what cancer is it's
like there's something that's getting in
the way of you being the person that
like you can be and you know I I'm not
sure exactly yeah I'm kind of curious I
mean what what has been y'all's
experience so it sounds like for Raymond
it was like sort of liberating to
certain kind of find a diagnosis and get
a sense of like you know some of the the
way that his brain is wired what's it
been like for you guys what's been
y'all's experience with sort of
interacting with the mental health
system is always been terrible I tried
to keep therapy a lot growing up and
mostly they told me I should just try
fitting in those try being like
everybody else and my brother were
looking nothing I told him that they
told me that he told me to stop seeing
them and but I've learned I listened to
you recently when you said you should
work with the therapist to let them know
when what they're seeing isn't helping
you and try to have that proper dialogue
with them and now for my like if I
pursue therapy in the future I'll
definitely try to do that previously I
did try to do that in some ways but it
didn't bear any fruit and I feel like
we'll probably best for me to end those
relationships like way I did
definitely something to consider in the
future well what's yeah
it's been difficult knowing that I'm
bipolar feels like I have a permanent
debuff but it's working around that
debuff that inspires me it gives me a
lot of anxiety when I think about the
future especially I think that's my
number one problem as a person I can't
stop thinking about the future and that
scares me because I don't want to go
manic again and I'm afraid of going
manic again and I'm afraid of the
feelings that come around being bipolar
and I'm afraid of the results of those
actions like so for me personally before
I was diagnosed I had a really bad manic
episode and they're like the trauma
behind that episode and the results of
that episode still reverberate today and
so it's it's liberating in the sense
that now I know what's wrong with me
and I get it and I totally understand
that and I'm working with a doctor to
help that but it's still it still feels
like a debuff it still feels like a
monkey on my back but I just can't get
rid of I'm wondering if I'm hearing like
another like point in the favor of it
shouldn't be this way like that's
another theme I've heard from you guys
what do you feel strong feeling yeah
yeah I didn't ask for this for sure like
it certainly feels like you know I
didn't ask for this [ __ ]
but and now it's like learning how to
deal with that [ __ ] what do you guys do
when the world is just an unfair place
and life is a [ __ ] game where you you
know you got a randomly generated
character and you're like stats or all I
worked it's kind of make the best of it
so I would do a whole journey of finding
myself since I was 13 it went through
self-help I got addicted to
self-development and whatnot and I was
reading a lot of self-help books for a
very long time I fell into like 20
Robbins and reading books on like having
friends my first one I ever read was
however in friends influence people and
yeah then I would go on from there and
we can be alchemists and I was my
favorite book of all time the book
they're really saving for myself and I
would say that it was the thing I did
when they were old for like an unfair
place was try to create a a person that
would like to be the person I could look
up to try to be the father to myself
I didn't have growing up and those
through reading books and trying to look
through our lists like people like Alan
Watts or the book house as a man
thinketh by James Allen looking for help
looking for answers I would say it was -
looking for answers died trying to find
it but try to find who I was and kept on
putting myself out there and I grew up
very awkward because I didn't have that
many friends and II know many people so
I challenged myself often to meet new
people however I was really bad talking
to girls especially me and my dating
life or something that I wanted to get
right and it was do telling myself to
talk to girls and mess up over and over
and over again learn about it and learn
to see them first of all he knew his
human beings because that's something
that you definitely not taught when
governor talks I'm asking the household
but um it was to learning that and
having female friends and going through
so many different things and learning to
love even if that even if those people
that you love hate you just because the
way you look June to love them anyway
that's what have really helped me and
choosen to find things that makes me
happy in my worst moments like music and
art so I know I think it's it's tricky
because like on the one hand I hear Eli
talking I'm curious what you guys think
about this and I hear him say like I
taught myself to be the you know the
father that I'd like to be my own father
to be to be the father that I didn't
have and that sounds like so
inspirational and at the same time I
feel like it's like kind of crushing -
what do y'all how do y'all feel about
that statement I mean it seems
significant to me I thought it was
significant to you guys I think like
obviously I resonate with that a lot
because I see that I can think about it
a lot like I would just think about what
things that could have been different
about my childhood that I could change
and be different but the weird thing is
like my dad probably had those same
thoughts you know anything like um his
dad was like far worse than him and he
tells me about it and you he's trying to
be better and I understand but when I
know that my dad also had similar
thoughts and like this is still the
outcome like it kind of worries me a bit
like for how I might turn out moer you
or even there he might turn out I'm all
the time
I got worried I because I do everything
in my power to not be my father and I
try my best to not fit into any mold but
it's difficult because I feel like I'm
constantly trying to adapt and if you
like I'm constantly trying to fit the
needs of what I need at the moment in
time but it's difficult I I feel like
sometimes I lose myself in the process
and I'm very scared of that and I forget
like what is the real me anymore
sometimes and it's difficult because I'm
afraid of things like like like
childbirth and like being a father can I
be a father with Bipolar I don't know
it's it's difficult and those things
really influence how I think a lot what
do you guys think what do you guys think
the real mo is I think most awesome
person these I know based on how genuine
he has been to me in this day few days
I've known him we spoke a little bit
yesterday and he's just a great person
from like a few interactions a god what
makes him a great person what about
those interactions I have a sister with
bipolar depression and he reminds me a
lot of Harriet like my sister is like a
wonderful and joyful caring person and I
love her very much so like Moe exhibits
a lot of those qualities so I just like
I think he's great same year my brother
like my brother also has bipolar
disorder and he's also a be the same way
in that way yeah and uh Moe my sister
also has kids it's possible to be a
parent with bipolar like it's hard
obviously but it's not possible I'm
gonna cry
a lot thank you guys thank you what did
that mean to you mo that validation is
really nice that validation is super
important and like I don't hear it
enough I think the worst of myself and
I'm far too hard on myself and I don't
like that I always think of the worst in
the negative situations and it's really
nice to have that validation validation
feels to me like an understatement had
what do you feel no give us another word
for it or a lot of words that are all
off the mark needed I feel justified I
feel like I'm uh
I feel right I feel accepted I feel like
I'm in a place where I'm supposed to be
when I hear those things I feel like I'm
doing something right and that's really
it it's it's it's hard and like I've
always had love and appreciation from
from other people and I do my best to
spread that around as well and I mean I
call myself a great big hug because I
try to be a great big hug all the time
and like it's sometimes you just need
that reflection and so it's nice because
I want to believe that what I bring out
into the world is coming back to me I
want to feel like I'm doing something
right and so when I get that validation
it really feels like I'm doing good
it means a lot of people give that
validation when you had the child of
childhood is that a huge mo and everyone
here in this chat has ADD and I do I'm
so who deals like this more this for you
I think is what it's called and since I
didn't look the way I look now growing
up and I get validation externally
I don't believe - I don't see myself the
way the world sees man you and I got
compliments growing up because of how
even I did well at home with school I
didn't if you were like the rewards as I
said but didn't weight negatives and now
when I get compliments I can never
really like feel the joy of the
compliment the only time I really felt
seen was when my mentor told me that he
sees how much I care about people and if
for the first time I like that someone
actually saw me for the person I was
because growing up all I ever wanted to
understand was why we hurt each
so much why we can't spread love fully
and why we can learn to love responsibly
and why do we have to spend so much hate
ask you something what was it like to
hear Moe's response to what y'all said
it was beautiful
yeah really wholesome what was well
liked um I'm glad we could like give him
like that validation I guess a well you
said it wasn't necessarily validation
but I'm glad like my experience is along
with everyone else's like could help
someone like understand themselves are
like understand how people view them
more because I struggle with that like a
lot and I've only recently started like
understanding how people view me and I
know how great that feels so I'm glad we
could like help Moe like experience that
cause it's great mm-hmm does anybody
feel a little bit confused or left out
of this exchange um I wouldn't say I
feel confused but like I cuz I this is
like a normal thing for me but like I'm
just very emotionally detached in
general so like a lot of things just
don't hit the same for me yeah and I
don't like see things the same way so
that's just like normal for me yeah what
do you think about that Aki um I was I
was actually just thinking like I feel
like I don't really I don't really feel
like a lot of the emotions that I think
are probably there on the inside but
like I feel like listening to all of you
guys I feel like I'm it's almost like
getting a mirror that lets me get an
idea of how I probably actually do feel
about things because everything you're
saying like on some level it feels like
it relates and it makes sense and I'm
just like okay these are just things I
can't see for myself for whatever reason
but when you guys say it it all makes
sense and I'm like okay now it all ties
together
this is what party XP looks like by the
way right so I I think this is why I
think yeah I mean you know I think
individual work is really important but
I think that I can imagine that if I was
speaking to anyone of you one-on-one we
would have gone down a particular rabbit
hole and and you know hopefully it would
have been helpful but I think that there
is something that you guys can give each
other that I can't give you right
there's something about you know I can
try to be a mirror but I don't really
know and to a certain degree I kind of
know but like you know I don't really
know what it's like to grow up black
minority sure toxic masculinity sure a
culture that sort of has very strict
gender rules and ideas about what men
should be sure you know but I think
that's you know part of that it really
is just humanity because it's not like
toxic masculinity in a particular
culture it's like masculinity as whole
you sometimes be toxic anything that you
guys want to kind of explore further I
mean we've been at it for a little over
an hour anybody have questions for each
other for me or has anybody has anybody
been told you're a smut guy you're just
lazy
almost it's not your fault you're a
smart guy you're just lazy all the time
I push it a lot if it's true like but
then like I'll notice like my
accomplishments and I'll be like yeah
like I'm kind of smart and sometimes you
know I always do it it feels like a
burden of expectation yeah and it feels
like it feels like I like you know I'm
not on my true potential just because
I'm lazy or I'm not on my trip potential
because these things are holding me back
but that's never the case and that's why
I always think it's just such a [ __ ]
when I very hear that I heard that's so
often growing up I hate it and it still
pisses me off when I hear that and he
leaves this feeling there's always
something you should be doing and makes
what you do like what you're doing right
now even it's relaxing you can make you
feel like it's never enough and that
sense of you're a smart guy you're just
lazy
it proved it's a pervasive and insidious
killer in the sense that it makes even
when you actually do work hard on
something you doubt if your full effort
was really even put to it and when you
talk about procrastination as being the
smart thing to do dr. K it made me
recognize that that's why broke my
childhood it became more and more the
thing where I've grasped me more and
more and more and more as years gone
would go by because I'd find that my
emotion most my emotional state would be
better the mark ratain ated
simultaneously as the work ethic Liz
that yeah I would get a good grade on
something I do and study on this because
in nature they actually pay attention in
class but that would leave a bad habit
to grow where I don't study or don't do
though premeditative work that needs to
be done because the fact that what those
mean you're smart you're just lazy yeah
I think I think smart but lazy is the
most damning diagnosis someone can get
because it leaves this idea that it's
you have it within you to do it but
you're just [ __ ] dumb so you're not
doing it I mean my take on smart but
lazy and and I don't know if this is
gonna make sense it's just kind of an
image popped into my mind it's sort of
like if you guys played like or we yeah
there's like it's like kind of like you
guys are living life and everyone's
telling you to use the buttons on the
controller but what you've really got is
a wiimote and you have an entire input
axis that like other people aren't
wearer and sometimes you use the Wiimote
the way it's supposed to be used and
everyone
telling you to just hit the buttons but
when you Excel it's like because you're
moving the Wiimote around and there are
just parts of you that you guys have not
found yet and and so what happens is
people see that you can absolutely
perform at a very high level and the
problem is not that you guys are dumb
the problem is that you're not able to
access that which you have been able to
do before and and so it's it's not
really like it's not that y'all are bad
or dumb or lazy or anything like that
it's just there's something about the
way that you work that y'all don't
understand yet definitely and I would I
would be really careful about you know
so I also kind of sympathize with Aki
and sort of the idea of like I'm gonna
prove myself and then dot-dot-dot
right like I want you guys to be really
careful about the and then like Moe's
like I'm gonna get my mental health in
order and then maybe I'll have kids like
be really careful about this idea that
you're gonna be ready to take the next
step before you take the next step you
want to be confident in taking the next
step before you take it but I want y'all
to really tunnel down and like pay
attention to what Raymond said and and
also what Eli is kind of mentioned is
that like he sort of takes the next step
before he's ready
like he just opens up the word document
there's no mater readiness you know you
live life in a way that you're not ready
to take the next step you just take it
the other last thing that I want to tell
you guys I don't know if you'll know
this but you guys are really really good
at being thrust into situations that
you're poorly prepared for ie being life
being born in life as a black person
which no one prepared you for right no
like we don't get prepared for the life
that we get thrust into and like it's
not just being born a black person it's
just like being born now like we guys
were born you know it like with post
boomer generation and it's like this is
what you all have been thrust into a
world where like mental health is like
climbing at a crazy rate so when I
started working with video game a
addict's it's not really a great term
but can you you guys know what the
percentage of people who are addicted to
video games was so I started working
with backpack with in 2016
worldwide what percentage of people do
you guys think we're addicted to video
games in 2016 like 5% simple said see
look at that you got tonight at this
what a guy store percentage is four
years later 20 is still 5% it's actually
like 9% so I'll take the first one but
there are so interestingly enough Moe in
Iran the addiction rate is close to 20%
no idea why yeah so like things are
getting worse
in a in a shocking rate but I think I
you know it's cool like I I think how
can I say this so first of all any
questions anyone else want anything else
and that was a great question by the way
Moe just about you know being told
you're smart lazy cuz it's absolutely
something that and that's not I mean
that has nothing to do with you guys
being black and has to do with us being
on Twitch
it's like what we get told yeah totally
I I did have a question like related to
the identity thing so like a lot of what
you guys are saying is like you can't
you feel like you can't be yourself and
it's interesting to me because all of
the stuff that you're kind of being told
that you have to be I feel like I just
internalized all those things and like
that is what I consider myself like
people say I'm supposed to be smart so
I'm like I already have the smart guy
people say I'm supposed to be masculine
all right then I'm gonna be the stoic
guy so like I don't even know how to
draw the line between people's
expectations of identity and what my
identity actually is I that makes me
think of what dr. K talked about enology
he used for was like for a trans person
to be trans and he said what you can do
is go into the bathroom and we're all
male clothes and well not female clothes
well wear women's clothes red dress were
abroad
see how you that makes you feel you feel
uncomfortable that's our trans person
feels they look in the mirror every
single day I think of when people gave
me those compliments he told me those
things about myself I felt really
uncomfortable because I just didn't feel
like that's who I was because the
reality that I was living didn't feel
like we resemble the things I was being
told and well people perceived me and
I'm not even I'm someone who like has
really balanced energy between masculine
and feminine validity and I find that my
experience has been that the more
masculine as people made me feel that I
had to be the more uncomfortable I was
especially more I tried to force myself
to be that person especially any dating
is like the feeling that you have to be
hyper masculine to get women to be into
you it was a big struggle for a very
long time and so I became 17 I was
really having a proper dialogue ruin my
life and you don't understand that the
best thing I can do for myself would be
a better version of myself what do you
guys think about you know I came talking
about like how do you know where you
exist when when you sort of form your
opinions about yourself based on
expectations like you become the
expectation that's what you think you
are is that something that you guys have
experienced more or struggled with I
have liked a lot recently um like before
like like like within the past year have
been like kind of working on it and
trying to figure out like what kind of
is my place in the world Who I am like
what my dynamic is and like a friend
group and everything and it was fine
until like I think my therapist
basically told me don't worry about that
like if the people around you didn't
want to be around to you like you don't
don't worry about like if they didn't
want to be around like they just
wouldn't so you don't have to worry
about like how you fit in where your
place is you can just find it because no
one really knows like how exactly like
other people perceive them and what they
liked you know and I was [ __ ] like my
really close friend Spencer and we were
talking about like the idea of like who
we are in identity he was like kind of
explain to each other like uh who we
think each other are but when
did we both realize like we just have
vastly different ideas of who we think
the other person is so like we no one
really knows kind of just a guessing
game
does anybody have a sense so it sounds
like Eli's done a lot of kind of
exploration and sort of discovering
Korea's I'm curious does anybody else
have a sense of like do you guys feel
like you know who you are
I feel I feel pretty confident in my
self-image sometimes but it's difficult
when it doesn't mesh well with other
people's sense of who I am as a person I
feel like I conflict a lot with others
when someone sees me coming from a
traditional African family then but I'm
not so traditional myself then I feel
like that's where I struggle with a lot
it's just how did you not have who you
are
mylord I'm through a lot through going
to university through meeting and dating
so many different people through
experiencing different traumatic events
in my life through you know so many
different experiences that I think
shaped myself including my bipolar
disorder like I I think someone asked me
a question recently where would you want
more or less pain in your childhood but
I think without that pain I wouldn't
have been the same person that I am now
so it's difficult it's it's I think I
would say I truly discovered myself at
the time I found my bipolar disorder
that's that's where I would kind of like
tie it all in yeah so you know I hope
that
take away there isn't the road to
finding yourself is to get diagnosed
with bipolar disorder so I think I think
I think the key thing there is that you
know so I think for people who are
trying to figure out who you are I think
we we can hear from kind of Eli and Mo
is that like first of all and also
Raymond too cuz I get the sense that
he's getting a real handle on it now is
I hope you guys hear that these are
incredibly individual journeys and like
what the [ __ ] did you guys expect when
it comes to finding out who your ID a
unique identity is you think that
there's a standard formula for it like
the whole point is that it's individual
right like it's your identity it's no
one else's identity so why is anyone
else's story like you can learn how to
write poetry and talk to women you can
get diagnosed with ADHD and and start to
like you know have a job and work in
boardrooms or you can get diagnosed with
bipolar disorder like those are all
equally good answers and I think I came
you know the challenges that that
doesn't really give you a way forward
because I get I guess on some level what
I'm hearing between reading the lines
between your question it's like how do I
find out who I am because you've noticed
that your sense of self is based it's
built upon the expectations of others
but that's not who you are right and
then you're like then how do I find who
I am so maybe this is where I can teach
you guys a particular meditation
practice and so we'll do that in a
second but if it's okay with you guys
I'd like to just try to summarize a
little bit about what I heard today is
that okay so I just need a second which
now I wonder whether that's going to be
like an emo that is racist towards
Indian people that's what I learned
today thank you guys very much we'll see
you all next so let me just think about
this all right so like i'ma start with
all right this may not make a whole lot
of sense because I'm just looking at
random things that I jotted down so I'm
gonna start with it shouldn't be this
way like that's where it starts right
that you guys were each thrust into life
with various amounts of debuffs and on
hardmode and it just it just shouldn't
be this way that greed and and you know
like like that you guys were so I I
don't know that you guys were really
allowed I mean it's almost like you guys
you know roll the stats of a fighter and
you were given like a wizard staff and a
set of robes and then you were like when
told to live life and this is where like
identity and exercise right and and so
it's kind of hard cuz you guys are like
sitting there on like level one you're
like what the [ __ ] is the stick like you
know so this kind of goes back to the
idea of like you know playing the game
with a wiimote instead of a regular
controller and being called smarten but
lazy because it's like everyone's you
know you're running around with the
stick and you're you know me laying
people with it when the stick is
designed to have spells and you're just
you're a different character like you
were born to use a sword and and so I I
think that there's a lot of there's a
lot of like expectation that was thrust
upon you guys everything from religious
expectations around what mental health
is to really kind of invalidating and I
don't really like that word but like
really just you guys being not allowed
to be the person that you are and what
I'm hearing from many of you guys is
that you guys had to fight for each inch
of ground like I'm thinking like I'm
imagining y'all's lives as like World
War two trench warfare where it's like
every foot that you gain is like gain
with like blood and sweat yes you know
and and it sounds like Eli's mom is
super supportive but it doesn't sound
like she started that way you know that
was like like you guys have to carve out
your space in the world and whether
that's holding back the way that you
talk around your peers because they
literally wouldn't understand you or
trying to tell your dad like what you
want to do in life and like he tells you
that you'd become a waste of everything
that all of his sweat and toil if you
choose to be the person that you are
what the [ __ ] man all right
or for for people in your life who have
been very very lazy in terms of their
invalidation of you the lazy ones just
called you smart but lazy right they
didn't even bathe in eve it like take
the time of data to invalidate you as a
person and a very specific in thoughtful
way hitter just like you're so [ __ ]
lazy why can't you just be better just
be better in life
Akeem would stop just sucking just be
better bro right and so then I kind of
get to this like you know I think we
kind of get into this idea of like
building your identity and the
expectations that people put on you
whether it's playing a game and like not
being able to use voice chat or you know
I've been having this question by mine
like I don't even know can pee I mean I
assume people can tell that you're black
based on your voice over voice chat yes
your cadence is about the cadence of
luigi last week and that's part of a
caricature as well and you already
understood like if you understand that
men when you bring the caricature has
been perpetuated for such a long time
they will immediately sign the cadence
in which you speak from that caricature
to you yeah so I like you know it comes
back to the sense of like you know be
like not being able to be yourself in
the world which you know starts with
your parents and even like even like
manifests in the gaming community and so
then I get the sense of you know I think
we see a couple of things that come up
the first is exhaustion that you guys
just have to do [ __ ] that like other
people don't have to do or maybe other
people do have to do it maybe that's
unfair to other people but I'm just
getting a layer of additional effort
like let's forget about other people but
that you have to do right that like I
you know when I log on to discord I
really don't think about you know what
how I sound and I don't have to spend
time thinking about that
and you know when I the only time I
spend thinking about is when I'm having
fun like when I saw top I'm talking like
takes and you know we can do that and
who the so you can you can play a game
of doubters for long new agents y'all
play legal agents leaders great ending
and so like that's been my experience of
my voice and it's been an overwhelmingly
positive thing and so I'm hearing you
guys just really so there's like this
idea of like who you are and who the
world wants you to be and and walking
that tightrope is just exhausting mm-hmm
and and at the worst it's like painful
and and really like I I'm really glad
that Moe took the time to dig in and and
think about what validating means
because it's not validating it's like he
used the word justified yeah what
justified what justified his [ __ ]
existence is a person and who he is and
not to be labeled or like you guys were
like yeah man you deserve to like be on
this earth and we're okay with the
person that you are that's what that was
it's not validation that's justification
of existence which what I hear from you
guys is not something that you'll get on
a daily basis and and this also I think
does race have a piece of why you're
absolutely I think you guys really you
know drew the short end of the steak in
the world that we live in today and at
the same time I think that's also
something that is not unique to black
people right I mean I think that smart
but lazy people who don't deserve to be
alive is like pretty much describes our
community and that's who we are
and and that's tough it's like it's
[ __ ] exhausting and so then I think
now we get into the part that I think is
really really tricky which is like you
know this idea that you're a lazy lazy
piece of [ __ ] and that you have to prove
it and I'd be careful because there's a
part of me that really like that rubs me
the wrong way when you guys try to like
prove it or unquote I don't even know
what I mean by that but that's what I
feel because I think what you're trying
to prove is not the person that you are
but the person that people want you to
be want you to be mm-hmm and I think you
guys got to be really careful about
that right if it's the person that you
want to be fine but if it's if it's like
proving to yourself that you can be that
which people expect you to be you got to
be careful and I'm basically talking
mostly to pequin here but also all of
you guys felt like you know that's who
I'm kind of thinking about I think his
statements really made me kind of think
about that I think we all face that too
and so then the question becomes how do
you figure out like who you are and it's
absolutely an individual journey and I
think the main thing that I'm hearing is
that the main different the main common
thread between and I'm just gonna kind
of reference Eli Raymond and Moe because
I think that's where I heard heard it is
they paid attention to their experiences
and they paid attention to their
experiences with their own eyes and with
their own ears and their with their own
feelings instead of interpreting their
experiences through the lens of stigma
society and expectation and it's I hear
the [ __ ] in it it still boggles my mind
every time I hear it but like get
getting diagnosed as mentally ill is
like a positive thing but Raymond felt
it was liberating and like you know Moe
getting like this diagnosis felt like he
started the process of understanding who
he is which doesn't mean that mental
illness is like a good thing I just it's
weird and I don't really know how to
make sense of it but I do think I mean
I've talked to when I used to do consult
psychiatry so this is like a
psychiatrist who works in a hospital
like in a medical hospital and I like
worked on the oncology floor and people
would say this weird [ __ ] like cancer is
the best thing that ever happened to me
I'm like dude what are you seeing like
how can that possibly be and I think
like you know in a game or analogy
there's like there's XP to be gained
there right and it's really about
learning and paying attention and like
thinking through your own journey and
and then at the end of the day I think
though that that identity and now we
come to our meditation exercise identity
can be found I do believe that that
there's an individual journey but there
are also some practices that you can get
a sense of like who your truest form of
identity is because the the people in
the East sort of had this clear idea
that like our identity is something very
pure the
the word divine and and that at the core
of our being like if you slough off all
of the expectations in all of the
[ __ ] what you see is what people saw
in MO and what mo felt which is
something like pure and beautiful and
divine and it doesn't matter what the
color of your skin is it doesn't matter
what diagnosis you have it doesn't
matter what you wear it doesn't matter
how you sound but there's just something
incredibly like pure and perfect
underneath all of it I believe that and
so then the question becomes how do we
find that well now I'm going to teach
you guys a particular meditation
technique okay so this is taught before
but I think you know I'm I sometimes we
teach things so I don't know if you guys
have encountered this but I want you all
to sit up straight I want you to close
your eyes so I'd also encourage you guys
to adopt Pyatt of a mudra which is this
so right hand and left you can put your
thumbs together and then go ahead and
put it in your lap so your arms are kind
of like a loose circle and then close
your eyes and just feel the person that
you are for a second just notice
yourself right so notice your body maybe
a particular facial expression maybe a
crinkling of the eyebrows a slight smile
maybe a little bit more of a bigger
smile
just notice who you are and this is
gonna sound kind of weird but like where
do you feel yourself you know where is
that Yunis like where do you exist maybe
kind of a weird question it doesn't make
sense not a big deal if it does you may
also notice your thoughts so take a
moment to notice that weird-ass thing
that we call the mind you saw the random
thoughts that it generates and sometimes
how you feel like those thoughts become
truth and that the thoughts can be
devastating and at a time those thoughts
become you or you become thoughts you
merge with them I'm a bad person I'm a
stupid person you know there I'm a waste
of space I'm a lazy piece of [ __ ] and
now I want you guys to look for a second
what D can you find the lazy piece of
[ __ ] within you but in this moment can
you find the part of yourself that is a
lazy piece of [ __ ]
look for it where is it what is it what
does it look like what does it feel like
can anybody find it I'm gonna ask you
guys to speak okay so so it sounds like
Eli can some people can't I can what
about you maybe a little maybe a little
it'll take it right so Eli can you tell
us what the lazy piece of [ __ ] feels
like to you the first thing that came to
mind the first thing that came to mind
was the child so I have this thing in my
head constantly since I've been the kid
was I feel like the kid that I was the
only thing that I really need was a hug
and in my mind the person that came to
mind was the kid that was scared of the
world and I was crying and I think that
is that part of myself okay great thanks
for sure so now what I want you guys to
do is keep go back to eyes closed so
feel that circuit between your arms and
kind of the linking notice your breath
and I want you to notice the inhalation
and the exhalation preferably through
the nose
but exhalation through the mouth is okay
if you really feel like it and now
without holding your breath I want you
to zero in on the moment where
inhalation becomes exhalation
notice that there's a discreet
inhalation in a discreet exhalation and
then there's something in-between I'm
gonna give you guys a few seconds to
just breathe and notice and now as you
find that space between inhalation and
exhalation put yourself fully into it
and then in that space try to notice who
you are who exists in the space between
inhalation and exhalation we'll practice
for about 30 seconds 60 let's give it a
minute
now let your awareness slowly return to
January 8th 2020 let your name return to
you let your location return to you
you're ready slowly open your eyes would
anyone like to share some reflections or
their experience of the practice yeah I
felt really chill I guess the point
where you were asked in the moment
between the inhale and exhale it was
like a parabola and it was at like a
range between sometimes it was closer to
the in hill sometimes quistis about um
exhale and also when you um asked me who
was that person at that moment in time
it was just a guy breathing it wasn't
myself it wasn't Raymond it wasn't space
and it wasn't was just a guy breathing
thus I saw it forward liked it thanks
that's okay people sort of had a similar
experience different experience having
um I was meditating recently especially
I've been after I started feeling better
way before all the black lives matter
protests have been gone recently I have
this is this associated feeling from the
madness of the world being able to
recognize that my being above and
outside of that and I feel that again
very strongly right now especially after
this entire stream I didn't recognize
how much better I would feel after
talking about all these things and I
guess getting them out of my head
without realizing how much of a problem
for me well such a long time and I feel
a lot peace in this moment I I feel
anxiety and that in between in that
moment in between an inhale on an exhale
I feel scared I feel I just I don't know
it's I don't know if I like that
in-between moment I like the inhaling of
the exhaling because it's there it's
like curry and it's like constant but I
it's it's that pausing that moment
between that scares me I think that's
completely fair man it is it can be a
very scary place to be for some people
doesn't mean you're doing it wrong
doesn't necessarily mean you need to
continue doing that practice but thanks
for sharing hard to explain like like
the shift like like a transmission oh
yeah yeah go for it you we can hear you
now maybe you speak up up eat it again
it's kind of party maybe bring the phone
closer to you yeah I can I could pick it
out is that better yeah okay all right
so for me I kind of saw like the shift
like and like shifting gears and unlike
the breath like returning and exhaling
and it just like it I was able to like
just reflect on myself a lot and how I
view myself which it was a really
positive experience because I think I've
gotten a lot better like a more happy
person I feel better about myself
and so is kind of just helping like
reinforce that fact and I really enjoyed
it so thank you
a keen you don't have to speak but you
know you're it's kind of weird I mean I
don't want you to feel pressure to speak
if you don't do I guess at that moment
of like between inhale and exhale and
like you asking what do you feel about
yourself or like who do you feel you are
at that moment and I guess the only
image that came to my mind was just like
a very I don't know just I guess I just
felt like very grand and like powerful
and I don't know if that's like I mean
that's kind of the thing that I always
wonder about in terms of identity like
I'd persistently have that perception of
myself but then I also feel like that is
also comes a lot from what people have
generally always expected from me so I'm
always like is that actually how I feel
about myself or is that just like me
trying to fit a role so I just always go
back into that question in my mind but I
don't know yeah so I Kenai I think you
have a lot of teasing apart to do right
so the way that I would interpret what
you said and we can go through and kind
of interpret everyone's different
responses but let's start with you and
go in reverse order so your case I think
that you've always had a sense of for
lack of better terms your divinity the
problem is that your the expectations
that people place upon you in the
expectations that you place upon
yourself turn that pure divinity into
grandmas they hijack it like because
here's the thing is they've expected
great things from you and you felt
greatness within you and so you've just
lumped those two things together where
they actually need to be completely
separate and it's it's gonna be a hard
road but like it really involves teasing
apart that which you feel about yourself
from that which you expect yourself to
be but I'd encourage you to keep doing
it I think before that was Julian yeah
and Julian you had said what me good
yeah so it was just like um it was a
moment for me to like be like very
insightful about like how I view myself
and um re-emphasize like how do I say
this kind of cosign those like in my own
mind like so I thought like generally
like nice things about myself and like
what I know from like what people have
told me and everything um and I was
kinda just like reaffirming those
feelings just while I was just thinking
and just trying to like I could feel
like just happier and I could feel like
that like more complete yeah good so I
think just let yourself continue to like
drink the water from that well right and
and like as people have other
expectations and you have thoughts about
yourself and like whether it's positive
or negative just like don't let go that
source you know and let it just continue
to fir like you know water your fields
and like whatever other nature analogy
you want mow in your case I think it's
completely fine for you to feel anxious
so sometimes raw experiences of self can
be incredibly anxiety provoking and
untethering I'm not sure that you had a
raw experience of self but that
absolutely happens so I think in your
case you may just want to have a
practice that really anchors you to the
present and anchors like is like so this
is a more abstract or untethering
practice it's actually designed to like
tech like and remove yourself from all
of the things that you think you are and
just find kind of a pure part of you and
I think the interesting thing mo is that
I think a lot of your growth has been in
finding anchors with your life and I
don't think that you're ready to let go
those yet which I don't think you should
because they're good anchors for you so
if you need to stick with the inhalation
and exhalation by all means stick with
inhalation exhalation keep going keep
walking the road that you're on because
it feels to me like it's on you know the
right direction you can absolutely have
kids one day you know it's like I mean I
know a lot of people who have bipolar
disorder and have children some of their
kids struggle too but like they're
they're happy stories like I'm thinking
about one person in particular who kid
had a lot of problems they had a lot of
problems they're both doing fantastic
now and now they have grandkids we're
doing great that's beautiful thank you
doctor it's like it absolutely happens
man
you know Eli I think I think it's
amazing that you've done I you know when
I heard you kind of talk about that
child within yourself i think it's clear
to me that you've done a lot of growth
and you've done a lot of exploration and
that you can sort of feel the some scar
for a lack of a better term of like you
know the piece of [ __ ] within you and
and to recognize that like that piece of
[ __ ] is not who you are but is a piece
of you that needs you to take care of it
and i think it's sort of a line with
what you're saying earlier about like
teaching yourself to be like the father
that you needed interestingly enough my
my teacher taught me a very specific
practice to do that which was sort of
like the cert my teacher gave me this
practice for the search for inner guru
so to like find a teacher within you so
that you need no external teachers so i
think you should just do whatever
whatever [ __ ] you're doing and you've
been doing just keep at it bro so I
think in sounds like it's a it's a good
journey and then Raymond I think you
know when I teach this practice and be
careful because this is gonna be loaded
what I hope what I imagine people will
experience or what I hope people would
experience is actually the closest to
what you described like this sense of
the parabola and the up and down doesn't
mean that it's right that's not the
point of meditation but I all of the
people in this group I would encourage
you to continue doing this practice the
most because I think that just something
about the way that you described it is
yeah maybe I mean you got all y'all can
do it everyone except for Moe but you
know III think that in terms of just the
way that you described it I think it's
the closest description to what I think
you will gain more from and it's not to
say that other people can't do it or
won't gain a lot and you definitely
don't want to make a decision after like
you know three minutes of a meditation
practice right so but but I think just
the way that you lost yourself in the
parabola is something that let me put it
this way other people who I have taught
this practice who have described
something similar have gone on to gain a
lot from it that's the way I should
describe it says nothing about the rest
of you guys it just means yet I've heard
other people describe that and then
they've they've gotten a lot out of
continued practice
so overall guys thank you so much for
coming on and and you know sharing
y'all's perspectives I it's it's been
amazing to hear your story and also like
sad to be honest to hear what you guys
have had to deal with and yeah just
tired
tiring more than anything else and I'm
glad that you all are part of the
community in like I think it's been
amazing to listen to you guys and I'm
grateful that you all have decided to
come on here today and try to share a
little bit about yourselves and help
help us out
thank you that's okay as well
what's for having us thank you so much
rather than you really appreciate it and
good luck to you as well but I'm gonna
keep thank you
okay alright so that was fun helpful I
hope that was helpful to you guys as
well yeah man it's tough dude it's tough
life ain't easy it's hard game hard game
to play
really hard for some people
yeah I think it's been tough but you
know those guys are strong and I I felt
yeah
I just have to process for a second
it surprises me how
it surprises me like how individual art
journeys can be and how common our
problems and struggles are like we can
all share the same challenges and
there's a lot to be gained from each
other and at the same time it's so
interesting to see like how you know
different people's growth and progress
is so wildly you know how it's supposed
to blur and that everyone's journey is
so unique and I think it's really cool
when like you know I guess I'm just sort
of envisioning a couple years ago I went
to climb Mount Kilimanjaro and it was
cool because like you know you you meet
certain people and then you hike with
them for a while and you're on the same
Road side by side for like two days and
then you know they decide to leave early
the next morning and then you're kind of
like by yourself again and both of you
guys are on your own journey and you can
really share it and resonate with
someone and really be with someone for
some time and then you have to go off on
your own path and and just hearing those
guys that's kind of what I felt like it
just reminded me of Kilimanjaro and like
that each of these people are walking
their own path but like sometimes you
know the steps look really similar and I
hope that you guys learned something or
gained something from hearing about
their path and maybe you can you know
walk yours a little bit better or even
just keep walking
after hearing theirs and it's it's cool
I'm glad that you know they came on and
I'm glad that you guys show up to listen
and
yeah